# NovaQuest: A Task Management App


#### Description: Nova Quest is a task management app. It enables users to plan their projects and break them down into smaller steps. Nova allows users to create multiple projects with different tasks consiting of a title, a due date and a priority level. To create this application I have used HTML, CSS and Javascript for the frontend. Building this website I learnt a lot about these languages especially html and css. By the end I was familiar with many html tags and css property-value pairs. To save the users data in a database I utalised SQL and python. The Flask library came in handy in this process. I defined a basic structure for the page in layout.html which was extended to other pages using Jinja. I have implmented a login/register system to save users data. 

### App.py
#### Database Setup: The application initializes an SQLite database to store user information, projects, and tasks. It defines functions for creating these tables and establishing database connections. It handles user sessions using Flask's session management capabilities to maintain user login states securely. The application defines routes for rendering the main page, handling user registration and login, managing user sessions, creating and deleting tasks and projects, filtering, sorting, and searching tasks, and marking tasks as completed. It implements secure user authentication mechanisms, including password hashing for user registration and login. Users can create, view, and delete tasks associated with projects. They can also create new projects and associate tasks with them. The application supports filtering, sorting, and searching tasks to improve task management. Error Handling: The application provides error handling mechanisms to manage invalid user inputs and handle exceptions gracefully.It ensures that responses aren't cached to maintain data integrity and prevent caching-related issues. The application sets a secret key for session encryption and enables foreign key support in the database for data integrity. It includes configurations to run the application in a production environment with debugging disabled.Overall, App.py offers a robust and user-friendly platform for organizing tasks and projects, providing essential functionalities for efficient task management while maintaining security and data integrity.

### Layout.html
#### Layout.html is used to define the basic structure of my web app. It acts as a template which can be used by other html files. It specifies the HTML version and document type and sets the language for the document to english.Meta tags define the character set and viewport settings for better mobile responsiveness. External CSS and JavaScript libraries (Bootstrap and Font Awesome) are included for styling and functionality. A custom CSS file (style.css) is linked for additional styling. The body begins with a navigation bar (nav) with dark styling and responsive behavior. The navigation bar includes links to register and login pages if the user is not logged in. 

### Index.html
#### This html file specifys the structure of the main page of the website. If logged in, this is the page that opens up by default for the user. It shows a list of projects created by the user and allows them to create new ones. Once a project is selected from the sidebar, the user can see the existing tasks under that project. Additionally they can search the list of tasks based on the title. Tasks can also be added by the user. This html file, like others in this project uses Jinja within the html code. 

### Login.html
#### This is the screen that opens up by default if the user is not logged in. It has 2 input fields which take the users username and password. The /login route in app.py takes these values and checks the sql table for existing accounts. If found, the user is logged in else the login.html screen reappears. Alternatively, the user can register. 

### Register.html
#### This takes 3 inputs from the user, i.e the username and password. The third input is to confirm the password with the user. If all values are valid and the password matches the confirmation the account is created. The information is stored in an SQL table called users. 



#### NovaQuest is designed to help its users manage their tasks and increase productivity. It is a handy tool inspired by my own needs as a student. Creating lists helps me remember my tasks. The satisfaction of crossing out a task once done drives me to finish my work as fast as possible. It motivates me and helps me get more done. IN the future i hope to gameify this web app. Adding a point system, rewarding users for completing tasks and then allowing them to buy wallpapers and other features using these points are some ways to further incentivise the app for our users. 
